---
published: true
slug: llm-pmf
---
# Not All Problems Are Great Fits for LLMs

Many startups are racing to find product-market fit at the intersection of AI
and various industries. Several successful use-cases have already emerged,
including coding assistants ([Cursor](https://cursor.sh)), marketing copy
([Jasper](https://www.jasper.ai)), search
([Perplexity](https://www.perplexity.ai)), real estate
([Elise](https://www.eliseai.com/)), and RFPs ([GovDash](https://govdash.ai)).
While there are likely other successful LLM applications out there, these are
the ones I'm familiar with off the top of my head. Through my experience
building and selling LLM tools, I've discovered a new important criteria for
evaluating an idea.

## Are LLMs Especially Good at Solving This Problem?

Traditional business advice emphasizes finding and solving urgent, critical
problems. While this principle remains valid, not all pressing problems are
well-suited for LLM solutions, given their current capabilities and limitations.
As non-deterministic algorithms, LLMs cannot be tested with the same rigor as
traditional software. During controlled product demos, LLMs may appear to handle
use-cases flawlessly, creating an illusion of broader applicability. However,
when deployed to production environments with diverse, unpredictable inputs,
carefully crafted prompts often fail to maintain consistent performance.

## Where LLMs Excel

However, LLMs can excel when their non-deterministic nature doesn't matter or
even provides benefits. Let's examine successful LLM use-cases where this is
true.

### Coding Copilots

Think of coding assistants like Cursor that help you write code and complete
your lines.

When you code, there's usually a "right way" to solve a problem. Even though
there are many ways to write code, most good solutions look similarâ€”this is what
we call **"low entropy"**, like how recipes for chocolate chip cookies tend to
share common ingredients and steps. LLMs are really good at pattern matching,
which is perfect for coding because writing code is all about recognizing and
applying common patterns. Just like how you might see similar ways to write a
login form or sort a list across different projects, LLMs have learned these
patterns from seeing lots of code, making them great at suggesting the right
solutions.

### Copywriting Generator

Marketing copy is more art than science, making non-deterministic LLM outputs
acceptable. Since copywriting involves ideation and iteration rather than
precision, it has a naturally **high margin of error**.

### Search

Search is unique because users don't expect perfect first results - they're used
to scrolling and exploring multiple options on platforms like Google or Amazon.
While search traditionally relies on complex algorithms, LLMs can enhance the
experience by leveraging their **ability to synthesize and summarize information
within their context window**. This enables a hybrid approach where traditional
search algorithms surface results that LLMs can then summarize to guide users to
what they're looking for.

### Real Estate Assistant

Leasing agents primarily answer questions about properties to help renters find
suitable homes and sign leases. Since their core function involves retrieving
and relaying property information, a **real estate assistant effectively becomes
a specialized search problem**.

### RFPs

RFP responses combine two LLM strengths: extracting questions from lengthy,
unstructured documents and searching internal knowledge bases for relevant
answers. Since extracting questions from RFPs is time-consuming but
straightforward, LLMs can work in parallel to identify all requirements that
need addressing. This makes the RFP response process essentially **a document
extraction and search problem** that's perfect for automation.

## Conclusion

When building an LLM startup, focus on problems with two key characteristics:

 - Low Entropy - solutions follow common patterns, as seen in coding
 - High margin of error - tasks like copywriting where art trumps science

Or can be solved in a simlar way to common well-suited problem types such as:

 - Search
 - Document extraction

Beyond traditional business evaluation, ask yourself: "Are LLMs particularly
well-suited to solve this problem?" If not, reconsider unless you have unique
insights into making it work.