---
layout: post
title: "ARM Internship"
date: 2017-5-22
description: 
location: Austin, Texas
techs:
  python-plain-wordmark colored:
  ubuntu-plain-wordmark colored:
image: https://www.arm.com/-/media/arm-com/company/offices/austin-office-700.jpg?h=700&w=700&la=en&hash=64423B1FA385EEFAE3CF27343DCA229C07E96E55
---

### Task 1 - Duration: 1 Week
Read documentation on how to run a benchmark, setup git, and learn the mechanics of Juju
(anatomy of a charm)

### Task 2 - Duration: 1 Week
Flash Mellanox NICS with updated firmware and confirm that it can PXE boot. This
required a lot of ipmitool, bash scripts, and reading Mellanox documentation.

### Task 3 - Duration: ~8 Weeks 
Re-write software infrastructure to be compatible with newer version of Juju.
This meant re-writing almost the entire Python codebase that automates the
recreations of benchmarks on readily deployable machines in a server lab to be
compatible with a newer version of Juju (the team's deployment system). In addition
to re-writing for newer software infrastructure, my job was also to migrate
the code to Python 3 and document the whole process and design changes to a team
of 25 people.

### Task 4 - Duration: ~4 Weeks
Create software to automate flake8/pylint processes on Gerrit patchset updates.
This was accomplished through the use of Jenkins and about 300 lines of Python
automation code. This task required a lot of string parsing and process development.

### Task 5 - Durection: ~3 Weeks
Designing algorithm for estimating benchmark execution times

### Important skills learned/improved:
 - Software Development Lifecycle - Research/Learning, Development, Code Review Process, Version Control
 - Strong Coding/Scripting Skills
 - Python, Bash/Shell scripting
 - Continuous Integration with Jenkins
 - Oral Presentation Skills

